On Friday, June 23, the new immigration law was passed, with many positive changes for employees as well as employers.The first provisions of the law are to come into force as early as November 2023, while others will take effect six or nine months after promulgation.

For EMPLOYERS, the following points are relevant:

IT professionals
+ You can now work in Germany without a university degree. 

Blue Card 
+ Lower salary threshold for the EU Blue Card: reduction to €43,800 instead of €58,400 annual gross salary. 
+ Blue card also for IT specialists without a university degree. 
+ Blue Card holders can now bring not only their spouses and children, but also their parents and parents-in-law. The parents cannot take social benefits. 

Employment relationship
+ Employment should be possible even if you work in a profession that is different from your original qualification, e.g. your university degree no longer has to match your job. 

Diploma recognition
Diploma recognition is no longer necessary* if:
1. You can prove min. 2 years of work experience.
2. A state-recognized university degree in the country of acquisition.
*Important: There is a required minimum salary of 43. 800 €. 
IF the minimum salary is not reached, the employee must have his professional degree recognized. The positive change is that the employee is allowed to work during the recognition process if the employer agrees to release the worker for a necessary qualification

 "German Green card" / Chancenkarte
+ 12-point system for job seekers, points awarded for twelve criteria (e.g. qualification, age, language skills, previous stay in Germany)
+ The Chancenkarte grants those selected on the basis of their potential a visa for one year to come to Germany without having an employment contract to look for a job. 
+ One must score at least six points to receive the opportunity card. This means that they are actively looking for a job in Germany for one year, provided that their livelihood is already secured.

Furthermore, there are few considerations here to make before making any requests:

1. If you work in Non-IT fields then you have to learn the language of the respective country (EU) apart from English i.e. German, Spanish, Italian etc
2. I am familiar with the process around IT other professions like Medical migjt require some other things which i won't be aware of.


Credits: Thanks to Umair for sharing valuable information with the community